hi this is pm dinner welcome to my
monthly webinar for today i want to talk
about
messaging framework three things that
will touch
number one what is messaging framework
number two
why do you need it number three what are
the templates that you can use
so you can get started all right let's
dive in
today we are going to talk about the
messaging framework and there are three
things i want to cover
really and before i get started i want
to do a quick intro about myself
so pam dinner right here yay from
portland oregon
i'm a b2b marketer through and through
can you tell
[Laughter]
so in general i help accelerate
marketing's contribution to sales
via content marketing account based
marketing or sales enablement and i do
that through
trainings keynote and working with
clients in the trenches and to set up
the process
and do whatever is necessary to get
things done
and if you are interested in terms of
summer books i have written
number one is global content marketing
which is how to scale content across
regions
the next one is effective sales
enablement how you can support sales
as a marketer and i also wrote a book
about artificial intelligence
it's really kind of like a high-level
introduction in terms of what artificial
intelligence can be leveraged
in the landscape of a b2b marketing so
if you are interested in any of these
books
check it out i also have a facebook
community
whoever is interested can join it's
really about building your marketing
skills to get ahead if you have any
specific questions
about digital marketing or specific
discipline of digital marketing or how
to build alignment between sales and
marketing
or how to even enhance your own
marketing skills come to the communities
and ask me any questions i
answer all the questions myself and the
three things i want to talk about today
is
number one what is messaging framework
and
why it's important number two what are
some of the benefits
that you need to understand in case you
need to create one you need to explain
to your internal teams
why we are doing this together or
collectively as a team
and number three is about some of the
templates i want to share with you that
you can do a diy
without my help and those are the
templates i have been used
actually by me with my clients so i want
to share exactly what i use with my
clients so you can get a sense of it
let's get started number one
what is a messaging framework it's
really a very structural
and a hierarchical way to represent your
products unique
promises and differentiators that is it
it's basically a very structural way to
kind of look at your products
and then in weave into the customer
challenges
and then you determine what you want to
say about your products
that's really what messaging framework
is and why do we need it
in general if you have a solid messaging
framework
it would guide multiple different
departments
and also the groups within the
organization
that they can basically move toward the
same direction
or communicate in a very consistent
manner does that make sense
if you have a messaging framework pr
team can use that to write pr releases
the marketing team can use that as a
baseline
to write your blog podcast or even
your video scripts sales people can take
that information
they know for the specific product what
they need to highlight
as a key differentiators or the key
talking points
customer can understand your
differentiators and know how you are
different
from other companies that provide
similar services
in general your competitors so the key
benefits
are consistency uh minimize confusion
and also a way to guide your editorial
and the content planning
most of the time messaging framework
tend to be overlooked
or even underrated that's because
it's not sexy that's also because it's a
lot of work
i'm going to share the templates with
you you will understand why
it's so much work and then now a lot of
people make an effort to focus on that
but yet at the same time this is a
fundamental literally the foundation
of a house that you are going to build
if you don't have that
everybody can say whatever they want to
say so that's one
having a messaging framework and this is
tend to be more
critical on the b2b side than on the b2c
side the b2c side a lot of products tend
to be
transactional driven and a lot of
product is less complicated when you
sell a piece of furniture
or when you sell a piece of lamp it's
very easy to articulate the benefit of
the lambs
or the benefit of the sofa the material
that you are using
the length out that fit into a space etc
it's easy to articulate that therefore
you may not need the messaging framework
to define the products such as the one
i'm pointing out the limbs or
the jofah on the b2c side your products
tend to be a whole lot more
complicated if that's the case you need
to actually have some sort of framework
or some sort of template
that guide people through in terms of
what you want to communicate
what you want to say for your products
and services
does that make sense so with that being
said there are three
types of messaging framework templates i
want to share with you
three okay i do share the ready-to-use
messaging frameworks and the written
samples and i want to share that with
you at the end of the webinar
so you know where to get them
so number one it's all about
products most of the time especially in
the b2b side
many companies when they create
messaging framework
that tend to be product specific or and
tricks
that makes a lot of sense because after
all
we are selling the products to make
money to increase our revenue there's a
direct correlation between the product
you are selling
and also the revenue that's going up so
having a certain way or unique way to
talk
about your product is critical
this is one template i want to share
with you you started with
the name of your product on the top the
second column or the second row if you
will
it's the target audience who is the
target audience that you want to
communicate
or you want to market to what is the
specific value proposition
for that specific product with that
value proposition
what kind of customer challenges that
you want to address
and also the messaging positioning and
the product features
associated with each challenge
in general i would say three identify
three major customer challenges you
encounter
and how your products will address that
so you have messaging positioning you
have the product features
and then the next thing is can you
translate that product features to user
benefits
the next row that i suggest is what are
some of the keywords
associated with each product feature
and the user benefits once you have this
information or you have this
created all of a sudden the team will
understand
that for this specific product will
address
these types of challenges for my
customers these are the couple features
i can talk about and these are the user
benefit
i can also use for the content creation
and adding the keywords will help the
content creators
to incorporate that keywords when they
write content
voila this is a template that you can
use
or it's one type of messaging framework
so let's give you some specific examples
given that this is more about diy
you are using my template and you are
doing this yourself
i'm going to share with you in terms of
how you should write this
and there are no right way or wrong way
of writing it i'm just giving you
some examples and get you thinking let's
assume you have a specific product
is a quality management suite so you put
that down
the target audience is a vpa quality
many of my clients want to put five
different target audiences right there
it was like oh you know why for this we
want to make sure we talk to the ceo
we want to make sure we talk to the vp
of quality we also want to talk to a vp
of i.t
on top of it we want to talk to another
level of i.t managers
in general when i ask or recommend
my client to do a messaging framework
you put one or two personas
or target audience that's it preferably
just
one because you are writing or you are
talking about
your product to a specific person
if you put the five different target
audiences
on that specific template is not really
helpful
what are some of the key challenges you
really want to
tailor for that specific audience they
might not
looking at your product in the same way
so in terms of the number of target
audience i would say one or two
the value proposition is basically what
is your product due
can you write one statement about that
for this quality management suite
is really about salary decision making
with ai based and
analysis and real-time reporting anytime
anywhere
for this management suite there are two
things they really want to highlight
one is ai based they have artificial
intelligence embed into it
to actually help you to make a decision
they also can provide you reports
anytime anywhere across all devices
so that's one thing they want to focus
on with that what are some of the
challenges they are addressing
to ensure the corporate quality
standards are being followed
a lot of time there's a quality standard
or quality compliance down at the
factory level
and that's set up by the government so
they want to make sure they are
complying with that quality standard
i mean the vp of the quality require
a suite that's capable to serving the
needs
of our manufacturing site around the
world so that statement basically said
this management suite is actually
tailored for enterprise usage
you are target not just for any vp of
quality
you target for the vpo quality of
enterprises that have manufacturing
sites around the world that means the
system needs to be consistent across
all the manufacturing floor around the
world
to monitor the production process that
can also store
the process data for quality and also
regulatory
compliance audits that's the challenge
the challenge of the vp of quality say i
need a system
i need a system that i can use across
all my sites
that actually monitor the quality
standard exactly the same way
or have to comply with that country's a
specific quality standard
does that make sense so that is their
challenge
then the next things that you have to do
is okay
what is my positioning for that specific
challenge
basically like i said i targeted for
enterprise
and so i write on one specific statement
for that specific challenge
real-time decision making enterprise
visibility
easy to remember right there
and what is the product feature that
will support that
i have a specific product feature that
mx350 advanced analytics
you know that your engineers know that
your sales people know that
but i don't know that
outside the company inside the company
everybody was like mx350 super sexy
great but you cannot talk about mx 350
to your customers they don't get it so
you have to translate that to the user
benefit
so mx350 advanced analytics provides
availability across
all sides and using ai to uncover hidden
quality issues
but not just mx350
but what is the user benefit really
really
is for mx350 is
using ai to continuously monitor the
quality data
and the report potential issues and then
come up with potential recommendations
do you see how i write the messaging
templates
and turns the messaging from challenges
down to positioning down to features
down to user benefits
they are interrelated the keywords
what are some of the keywords associated
with that
operational efficiency artificial
intelligence mx
350 enterprise wide visibility
iso 9001 quality certification
all those are keywords that can be used
or you can use to create
that's associated with that specific
challenge
i'm sharing the templates with you so
you saw that in the previous slide
but you can add additional elements as
you see fit
if you are writing a messaging framework
specifically for campaigns
can you add that yes if you are writing
this specific
for product launch can you add that yes
if you have a competitive landscape you
want to align with
everybody before you even talk about
customer challenges can you add that
yes can you also add another role in
talking about references
of course there are a couple things you
can edit
you can even say primary audience versus
secondary audience
so if you look at this template i'm
using right now i'm modifying it
for a client of mine that actually
running massive campaigns worldwide
so we create a very specific messaging
we still start with the product
but we talk about industry dynamic we
talk about campaign objectives
then we talk about the value proposition
customer challenges and then
etc you have to think through in terms
of
what is your template will look like
what additional information you want to
add
to align with everybody messaging
framework is an
internal communication it's not
something you share externally
you are not going to find any company
sharing their messaging framework with
anybody it's usually treated as a
confidential
all right here pick and choose different
elements
and make your own messaging framework i
spend so much time creating this
slide i have to render it again
so that's template number one
all right template number two let's talk
about
thought leadership so the first one is
really about
product the second one is the template
is about thought leadership
for this one you will see is a little
bit different rather than start with a
product you start with objective
the objective of the communication if
you want to create a thought leadership
story what is objective
of that story who is a target audience
that's always there for any marketing
that you do
you're always to determine your target
audience the overall narrative
is basically the overall stories you
want to tell
in that industry is a broad stroke
of what that industry or that specific
technology
and then company specific narrative if
you understand
that overall landscape the broad stroke
of that industry or specific technology
then you can narrow that down
to a company's specific narrative and
then you can still determine the value
proposition but this one is a company
y product portfolio again the benefit is
company-wide you have to look at very
holistically it's a company's product
portfolio
it's a company's mission then the
messaging positioning the impact
if you actually write the messaging
positioning what is that impact
what is the impact of your product
portfolio
in terms of the industry or the a
technology landscape
then you can determine what are the
specific stories you want to tell based
on that specific messaging
and what are the topics that you want to
write and also the keywords that
associated with it
you can see right here when you talk
about thought leadership
the key takeaway for this specific slide
it's really about your narrative
what is your narrative this is also
in a way a template i'm going to read it
through and
you should listen just listen and try to
get a sense of it
it will resonate with you if you are in
the b2b side and you are working on the
thought leadership type of content
objective address a specific company's
role
and its differentiator in the future of
technology or a specific industry the
target audience is vp
of what quality the vp of sales
doesn't matter an overall narrative
this is some of the sentences that you
can use because you are
writing the narrative you have to look
at the broad stroke the overall industry
then you narrow it down
to your company and also the products
that you offer
the rise of the technology trend cyber
security
just call that is revolutionizing
certain product category of yours
that same technology is also ushering
a specific segment in the air
uh what are some of the key trends you
want to talk about
do you see it it's kind of like a
template
to maintain a competitiveness the
companies
your customers will need to leverage
technology cyber security cloud-based
whatever
to be nimble responsive cost effective
those are some of the key terms that
people tend to use
and consistently meet their customers
challenges or expectations
then you move on a little bit narrower
one of the central and critical
components of this
trend whatever you decide to talk about
in the context of your company's
offering
is to reevaluate what are specific
product categories
from what to what so that's kind of the
starting point
so you're talking about the overall
narrative then you move it down
a little bit to a company's specific
narrative
as a solid solutions that you offer
that have ability to do what to help
your customer make certain kind of
decisions
you want to talk about your company a
little bit it's okay to be self-serving
to some extent your company has been
working on this product
to help the target audience to do what
this type of platform or management
suite
whatever that is is one of the key
critical component
for the trends and technology you want
to talk about
and how your company catalyze that
transformation
voila that's your story i'm not saying
it's that simple
even though i'm creating your template i
give you something to share
it doesn't mean you can take this and
copy exact and then your narrative is
done
you really have to think through in
narrative
every single word counts and right here
is not bullet driven
bullet point driven in the product
specific type of messaging framework i'm
sharing with you it's more probably
a couple sentences bullet points here is
paragraph
you have to write several paragraphs
that's sensible that makes sense
once you move that on you can talk about
value proposition the company paves the
way to
what what kind of specific visions you
want to share
the benefit tend to be in the five
categories cost value risk performance
efficiency
can you articulate your company's
broader portfolio
what the companies like the company
effort that you are doing
that either decrease the cost increase
the value
minimize risk enhance performance and
also enhance the efficiency can you talk
from these perspectives
so for the quality uh the vp the quality
management suite
one thing that is very important to them
is connectivity
their system can connect all the devices
no matter what kind of devices
that they have they can connect it from
the desktop phone to actually to
the tablets to even iot so connectivity
is their biggest differentiator their
product is always driving connecting all
the tools together
i work with them to think through in
terms of what is the impact of that
positioning
that means when you connect everywhere
you can access
all level of data anywhere anytime
then you start talking about your
messaging in narrative
is this kind of ability to connect
all the devices together will help the
industry
in the future doing what do you see how
everything is connected
in terms of writing a story this is in a
way kind of like
outline of your thought leadership
narrative
but it's something to think about it
does take a lot of effort to actually
write
like i said it's paragraph driven
then the next things you can do is you
can look into what are some of the
thought leadership topics
that you want to write based on your
self-discovery or the discussion with
your internal team
product category and the key trends or
how
certain product categories affect
certain kind of management or industry
right the future of something you can
see this kind of topic tend to be pretty
common
when you do a google search it's common
for a reason
because that's how people search and
again some of the keywords related to
that
it can be seo driven it can also relate
it to your product
or it can be something less than keyword
driven because a lot of thought
leadership
content the keyword they use tend to be
forward thinking
if it's a forward thinking it may not be
seo centric so you have to kind of
balance that
seo keyword along with some of the
future
keywords that you want people to use is
that helpful
so this is the leadership
all right template number three we sell
many
many many products do
i have to create messaging framework for
every
single one of them
no you don't is anybody watching a good
place
i love that show such a great job and i
love that show okay i sidetracked i
sidetracked
let's come back to messaging framework
a lot of time when you had sell many
many products
in the b2b side of things that means you
might have an e-commerce site
you have e-commerce sites and you have a
different product people can buy
or that people can choose if you
actually have e-commerce site
and you have many products in a way the
revenue
for all those products tend to be more
transactional driven
if you actually have many products that
you offer the price tends to be a whole
lot less
and you want people to actually kind of
quickly read through about what the
product is
and then they can make a quick decision
and to determine if they want to buy or
not
with that being said it tends to be a
catalog
or the e-commerce site if you have many
many
many products and let's just look at
ikea
ikea has many products and many of you
shop at ikea to buy furnitures
and they have a specific furniture but
if you look at
that all the product specific
information related to that specific
piece of furniture
product description product size care
instruction
environment and materials package
details assembly and documentation
review and the product
availability in a way in the e-commerce
size and you sell many many products
it's
probably a standardized template in
terms of what kind of messaging
and the key talking points you want to
share as a part of
that product for example the product
description right here
the sofa is quickly you know quickly and
easily
into a spacious bed so there's a couple
copywriting this is more related to
copywriting it's not necessary messaging
and you can place this chassis section
somewhere else so you give them specific
instruction in terms of
what the software is about and how this
will be used
and then of course the product size the
length and the care instruction etc
in general in this kind of setting
e-commerce when you're actually
having products it's not about messaging
anymore
it's really about providing the
information
that the audience will need you are not
necessarily going to say
okay what should i say about this
product if you are in that mindset
in general it's a hero products you are
selling and tend to be higher dollar
value and the less volume for this
there have got to be a templates already
set up as a part of e-commerce
website updates my recommendation is
follow the existing process
and updating the catalog as necessary
there's a template
like i said depending on what is shown
on your website this in a way is a
template that you can use
but it's not necessary messaging it's
more product information
related if you want to do the messaging
framework on your own
my recommendation is select one
templates to use and
modify it as you see fit when i say
select one template i'm not talking
about my template
when you do a google search on messaging
framework you will see many many
templates out there
and i'm not saying use mine mine is may
not be the best for your industry
and also for your product and services
so
select one but the most important thing
is
modify it don't use any templates
including mine as it is you have to give
some thought
in terms of the sequence of the
different roles
you did and how that will help you a
team
to understand what you are trying to do
so i want to make sure you understand
that when
you pick any templates don't use as
is and the modify as you see fit
based on this presentation there's a
blog post i wrote at the end of 2019
how to create a solid messaging
framework a guide for b2b marketers plus
templates
if you want to download the templates
i'm sharing with you today you can go to
that blog post and you can download that
even if you don't remember how to create
solid messaging framework a guide for
b2b marketers such a long title but i
wrote that title for seo
you can always google search messaging
framework
comma pam dinner and that blog post i
guarantee you will come up
then you can go all the way down and
there are templates that you can
download
it's a word doc and you can download and
use it
right there as a template and i have
many templates by the way whenever i
work with the clients especially on
projects i'm usually in the trenches
with a client trying to get things done
even though my role is a consultant but
it's really
more or less kind of a marketing doer in
the trenches and this that set of a
process that's
talk to the customers that create the
messaging framework all the content
editorial even set up account based
marketing process
so a lot of time what i do is actually
working with my client to set the
process to get things done
and i also do a lot of one-on-one
mentoring and coaching
the senior managers or the vp of
marketing or even marketing directors
a lot of time they would like to get
themselves up to date
in terms of a different marketing
technology and also
a different disciplines of digital
marketing and i usually do quite a bit
of mentoring and coaching from that
perspective as well and i also do a lot
of training
so if you are interested reach out to me
anytime another thing
is i send out a monthly newsletter if i
don't have anything to say
i don't send out newsletter so in
general when i send out newsletter is
tend to be
know how what are the specific things
that you can do to actually improve
say the b2b marketing content marketing
account-based marketing
or even sales enablement so if you are
interested you can subscribe go to
pamdiner.com all the way down to the end
[Laughter]
you can subscribe it the newsletter
another thing i want to share with you
this is a reality
even though i give you a template and i
share a lot of examples of warnings that
you can use
i want to make sure everybody
understands that it is a lot of work to
create messaging framework
and this is not something you can do it
by yourself if you are doing this
internally and your products are
complicated you need to work with your
product team your sales team sometimes
you even have to interview your
customers
it's a living document especially if you
are in a sas
based company that your company's
product is constantly being updated
and have a newer generation of products
that's coming on regular basis
your messaging framework needs to be
updated on a regular basis
and by the way it is a lot of work in
general when i work with the client to
actually create the messaging framework
depending on
when we can talk to subject matter
expert when we can talk to a product
team when can we talk to our customers
the whole process can be two to four
months but that doesn't mean that for
smaller companies you can move things a
lot faster
it doesn't have to be that long but in
general in the big enterprises it does
take a bit of time to get this done
and the biggest payoff from my
perspective is when you have something
like that
is like i said the consistency you are
able to drive a consistency in terms of
the communication outreach
with your pr team with your marketing
team with your sales team
another thing is the biggest payoff is
having the messaging framework
is the subject matter experts and also
the content creators can take the
information
and the write editorial content
incorporate the relevant keywords that
you
envision and you have in mind again it's
a sense of consistency
of course you have to write it from the
perspective not still serving not
talking about me
me me me it's really talking about the
customers challenges
and customers perspective how your
product will help them
all right another thing is i want to
share with you i hope i didn't overwhelm
you
based on my experience talking to
individual marketers who actually come
to me and asking
me for templates and doing themselves it
seems like it's actually doable
that you can do it on your own and some
of them actually reach out to me and
have
me helping them through a specific
project that also
is feasible and doable as well but like
i said i'm sharing enough
information with you that you can
actually get this started
which is a very good starting point
okay i hope you enjoy the webinar and
you find the information useful and
relevant
if you do please comment and give me a
like that would be greatly appreciated
and also subscribe to my youtube channel
i publish content on a regular basis
for b2b marketers i'm sure you will find
them useful
take care bye bye
you